# 2020-10-07

[[cpsc-1480]]

- Midterm!

[[phil-1101]]

- Guiding questions
  - What does "omnipotent" mean?
    - Why might one think that it's impossible for something to be omnipotent?
      - 1. Super-heavy stone --> stone so heavy even [[God]] cannot move it
      - 2. If [[God]] exists he is able to produce a super-heavy stone
      - 3. If [[God]] is omnipotent he could move the heavy stone, thus a super-heavy stone is impossible
      - 4. If [[God]] exists, he is not able to make a super-heavy stone
      - 2 and 4 are conflicting implications --> theism must be false
    - What is [[St Thomas Aquinas]]' response to this objection?
      - Omnipotence needs a different definition
      - Omnipotent being --> able to bring about any _possible_ outcome
      - Omnipotent being --> cannot bring about an _impossible_ outcome (like a square circle)
  - Tensions
    - Why might one think omnipotence incompatible with omniscience?
      - If [[God]] were omniscient, he must already know how He is going to intervene to change history using his omnipotence
      - Because [[God]] knows, he cannot change his mind about intervention
      - Therefore, he is not omnipotent
    - Why might one think that omnipotence incompatible with omnibenevolence?
    - How might a theist respond to these puzzles?
  - What is the problem of evil?
    - If [[God]] was omniscient, omnipotent, etc. He would've create the best possible [[Universe]]
      - A [[Universe]] with no suffering is surely better than one with suffering
      - Therefore [[God]] did not create the best [[Universe]] --> theism is false
    - What definition of [[God]] does the problem assume?
      - That [[God]] is omnipotent, omniscient, and perfectly good
    - Can you reconstruct this problem as a deductively valid argument with "[[God]] doesn't exist" as its conclusion?
      - 1. If [[God]] exists and is omnipotent, he could prevent suffering
      - 2. If [[God]] exists and is omniscient, he knows of all suffering before it occurs
      - 3. If [[God]] exists and is perfectly good, he would want to prevent all suffering
      - 4. If [[God]] exists, then he is omnipotent, omniscient, and perfectly good
      - 5. If [[God]] exists, he would prevent suffering (or make it less severe)
      - 6. [[God]] does not exist
  - What are some inadequate responses to this argument?
    - Responses
      - Suffering isn't real
      - Evil is merely a privation (absence) of good
      - [[God]]'s goodness is not human goodness, it is divine goodness
        - Cannot be understood in moral terms we use to evaluate human actions
    - Why are they inadequate?
      - Bait-and-switch
      - Mislead people by using words in a nonstandard way
  - What is a [[theodicy]]?
    - A response to the problem of evil
    - Arguments that [[God]] doesn't have to stop all suffering
    - Sometimes it is okay to allow or cause suffering
  - What are some theodicies given in response to the above [[argument]]?
    - Examples of theodicies
      - Some who have done wrong deserve to suffer
      - Suffering is good because it is character building
      - Free will
        - [[God]] gave us free will; he wants us to be free
        - Since we are free, we can act immorally/stupidly which can lead to suffering
        - [[God]] lets us suffer because free will is more important
    - Do any of them provide a compelling objection to the [[argument]]?
      - Why or why not?
  - Can you think of other possible theodicies?
- Omnipotent --> all-powerful
  - No limit to power
  - No limit to what an omnipotent being can do

[[cpsc-1050]]

- Low level [[programming language]]s
- Computer
  - **Programmable** electronic device that can **store**, **retrieve**, and **process** data
  - Instructions control unit executes
    - Can store data in memory
    - Can retrieve data from memory
    - Process data in some way in the [[arithmetic logic unit]]
  - Data and instructions to manipulate are logically the same
- [[Machine language]]
- [[Pep9]]

