# 2020-10-29

[[phil-1101]]

- Questions to guide the reading
  - What is the difference between [[rationalism]] and [[empiricism]] within [[philosophy]]?
  - What is the difference between [[realism]] and [[idealism]]?
    - Which position seems more plausible and why?
  - What is the difference between direct and indirect [[realism]]?
    - Which position seems more plausible and why?
  - [[David Hume]] claims all objects of human reason or inquiry fall into one or two classes: relations of ideas and matters of fact
    - What example does he give of relations of ideas?
    - In what sciences or disciplines does one usually find them?
  - What examples does [[David Hume]] give of matters of fact?
    - Where does one find or meet such propositions?
    - Are matters of fact known [[a priori]] or [[a posteriori]]?
  - [[David Hume]] claims we never come to know cause-effect relationships [[a priori]] but always [[a posteriori]]
    - What is the thought experiment about Adam supposed to show?
  - According to [[David Hume]], all experimental conclusions (conclusions based on experience) are based on or presuppose the principle that the future will be like the past (Principle of Uniformity of Nature)
    - What leads us to expect similar effects from similar causes?
    - Does a single instance of cause and effect suffice to mold our expectation?
    - If not, why does a multiplicity of cases give rise to this expectation?
  - According to [[David Hume]], thinks that such conclusions are prompted by the principle of custom habit
    - What exactly is this principle?
    - How is it supposed to explain the conclusions we draw from experience?
    - Do you think he's right?
      - Why or why not?
  - [[David Hume]] posits various principles that govern the association of ideas, with particular emphasis on the principle of constant conjunction
    - What does this principle say?
    - How is it supposed to help answer questions [[David Hume]] raised earlier about the justification for beliefs about unobserved matters of facts?
  - [[David Hume]] says he's giving a "skeptical solution" to the problem he initially raised
    - In what sense is his propose solution a skeptical one?
    - Do you find it to be a satisfying solution?
      - Why or why not?
  - What is Popper's response to [[David Hume]]'s problem?
    - How satisfying is this response?
  - What is Strawson's response to [[David Hume]]'s problem?
    - How satisfying is this response?

[//begin]: # "Autogenerated link references for markdown compatibility"
[phil-1101]: phil-1101 "PHIL 1101 - Intro to Philosophy: Knowledge and Reality"
[rationalism]: rationalism "Rationalism"
[empiricism]: empiricism "Empiricism"
[philosophy]: philosophy "Philosophy"
[realism]: realism "Realism"
[idealism]: idealism "Idealism"
[david-hume]: david-hume "David Hume"
[a-priori]: a-priori "A Priori"
[a-posteriori]: a-posteriori "A Posteriori"
[//end]: # "Autogenerated link references"