# 2020-10-03

[[phil-1101]]

- [[St Thomas Aquinas]]
  - Arguing for [[God]]
  - [[Cosmological argument]]s
  - [[Infinite Regress]]
  - His [[God]] is so far removed from [[God]] that it isn't very helpful
- Guiding questions for [[St Thomas Aquinas]]' [[argument]]
  - Why does [[St Thomas Aquinas]] think it's impossible for something to cause itself?
  - Why does he think there can't be a chain of causes going back to infinity?
  - What does [[Anselm]] mean by the word [[God]]?
  - Does the existence of [[God]] follow from the impossibility of both circular/self-causation and an infinite chain of causes?
    - If not, what other premises need to be added to turn this into deductively valid inference?
- Guiding questions for [[William Paley]]'s [[argument]]
  - According to [[William Paley]], what is it about a watch that seems to cry out for an explanation in terms of an intelligent designer?
    - Note all of the sophisticated objections that [[William Paley]] anticipates and responds to
  - In what respect is a living creature like a watch?
    - See section V
  - Is this analogy strong enough to support the conclusion that the existence of God is the best explanation for the existence of living creature?
    - Why or why not?
  - What sort of definition of God does [[William Paley]] seem to be assuming?
    - How does this compare with Anselm's definition?
- Using analogies to argue for a conclusion is a very common form of [[reasoning]]
  - [[analogical reasoning]]
- **Causal chain**
  - Sequence of events, where each event is caused by the previous event
- **Potentially infinite process**
  - Process that could be continued on and on without end
- [[Gottfried Wilhelm Leibniz]]
  - Every fact has an explanation
  - [[God]] is a necessary being not a contingent being
    - Contingent being --> _could not have_ existed
      - E.g. if your parents never met, there would be no you
- [[William Paley]] used an [[abductive argument]] to explain the [[design argument]]
  - Argument by analogy
  - Teleology --> goal based; function
  - Not everything has an obvious purpose
  - Flawed world implies a flawed creator
- Is infinite regress possible?

[//begin]: # "Autogenerated link references for markdown compatibility"
[phil-1101]: phil-1101 "PHIL 1101 - Intro to Philosophy: Knowledge and Reality"
[St Thomas Aquinas]: st-thomas-aquinas "St Thomas Aquinas"
[God]: god "God"
[Cosmological argument]: cosmological-argument "Cosmological Arguments"
[Infinite Regress]: infinite-regress "Infinite Regress"
[argument]: argument "Arguments"
[Anselm]: anselm "Anselm"
[William Paley]: william-paley "William Paley"
[analogical reasoning]: analogical-reasoning "Analogical Reasoning"
[Gottfried Wilhelm Leibniz]: gottfried-wilhelm-leibniz "Gottfried Wilhelm Leibniz"
[abductive argument]: abductive-argument "Abductive Argument"
[design argument]: design-argument "Design Argument (Teleological)"
[//end]: # "Autogenerated link references"
