# 2020-09-25

[[e-ubc]]

- Agenda
  - Market sizing
  - Competitive analysis
- Don't pitch product, don't ask about future intentions
  - Ask about past behaviour
- Be your own worst critic and consider mentorship
- Design will not improve the business
- Set milestones and attach consequences
  - What happens if you don't get the results?
    - Pivot?
    - Shut down?
- Be careful talking to friends and family
  - Don't talk about your product
  - They want you to feel good
- [The Step by Step Process to Create a Killer Pitch Deck For Investors](https://neilpatel.com/blog/create-pitch-deck-investors/)
- 60s pitches
  - [10 Elevator Pitch Examples](https://blog.hubspot.com/sales/elevator-pitch-examples)
  - Make people _curious_ on the solution
  - Give a real example
    - "My customer's name is Elizabeth..."
    - Personalize as much as possible
    - Use quotes from real interviews
  - Make a 30s presentation --> turn it into a 60s presentation
  - People often try to take a 5 min presentation --> 60s
  - This often makes it rushed, unclear, etc.
- [How to Start a Speech](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=w82a1FT5o88)
- On [[confirmation bias]]
  - It's easy to find evidence that supports you
  - Convert your hypothesis and test that
- Dig deeper in interviews
  - "Interesting, tell me more about that..."
- *Why is it so important for me to be right?*
- On a value prop canvas, you want 3 pains
  - Solve a real solid problem
- Don't design a problem for your solution
- Do you want to sell a product, or do you want to solve a problem?

[[phil-1101]]

- **Does [[God]] exist?**
- Questions to guide the reading:
  - What is [[Anselm]]'s definition of [[God]]?
    - Is this an adequate definition?
      - Yes, it doesn't matter what we have previously thought about [[God]]
      - The definition works for [[Anselm]]'s case and that is enough
    - "We believe you are something than which nothing greater can be though [conceived]"
      - [[God]] => the greatest conceivable being
  - [[Anselm]] says he's arguing against **the fool**.
    - Why would anyone want to argue with a fool?
      - [[Anselm]]'s fool is different than you might think of as a fool
    - What does [[Anselm]] assume is the case about the fool?
      - They deny that a greatest conceivable being exists
        - The fool is an [[atheist]]
      - The fool understands what it means to speak of a greatest conceivable being
        - Understands what the words in the definition mean
        - Can conceive of such a being
  - How does [[Anselm]] argue that [[God]] exists in our understanding?
    - Arguing that there are two realms of existence
      - Understanding
      - [[Reality]]
    - What in the world does he mean by this? *(hint: pay attention to his painter analogy)*
      - When a painter thinks of an idea for a painting, it is just in their understanding
      - Once they paint it, it is in their understanding _and_ [[reality]]
        - They have made it
  - How does [[Anselm]] argue that [[God]] exist in [[reality]], and not just in our understanding?
    - [[Reductio ad absurdum]]
    - We start by assuming [[God]] does _not_ exist and then prove existence by contradiction
    - We define [[God]] as the greatest conceivable being and then go through [[reductio ad absurdum]]
    - Steps:
        1. [[God]] does not exist in [[reality]]
        2. [[God]] does exist in the mind
        3. [[God]] exists in the mind but not in [[reality]]
        4. If [[God]] exists in the mind only (and not in [[reality]]), then he would be _greater_ if he existed in [[reality]] too
        5. If [[God]] _did_ exist in [[reality]], he would be _greater_ than he is
        6. [[God]] _could_ exist in reality
        7. [[God]] could be great than he is (because something existing in [[reality]] is greater than something existing only in the mind)
        8. The greatest possible thing could be still greater
           - This is a contradiction
           - Nothing can be greater than the greatest possible being
           - We defined [[God]] as the greatest possible being and thanks to this contradiction, He must exist
    - What does this mean?
    - See if you can decipher his argument contained in the last 5 or so sentences of ch. 3
  - What example does [[Gaunilo]] raise in response to [[Anselm]]'s argument?
    - The same reasoning could be used to say that greatest conceivable island exists
      - This is absurd
    - How is this example supposed to undermine [[Anselm]]'s argument?
      - Through reason alone, it's tough to accept the argument
      - This makes [[Anselm]]'s argument to appear absurd/weak
    - What is [[Anselm]]’s response to [[Gaunilo]]?
      - The reasoning _only_ applies to the class of all conceivable beings
      - The greatest conceivable being is not bounded like an island would be
  - What is our textbook’s analysis of [[Anselm]]’s argument?
    - Do you think our textbook authors are being fully charitable to the argument?
- Other objections of [[Anelm]]'s argument
  - Existence is not a property
    - A later objection to [[Anselm]]
  - Existence is a property, but it doesn't designate a _great making_ property
    - Things can have different degrees of [[reality]]
      - Actual rock vs. concept of a rock
      - Actual rock is _greater than_ the concept of a rock; it contains more [[reality]]
    - An infinite [[God]] contains _more_ [[reality]] than an island, etc.
- Ontological [[argument]]s
- Does [[God]] exist?
  - [[Theist]]
    - Believes some for of a god exists
  - [[Atheist]]
    - Someone who thinks god probably (or for sure) doesn't exist
  - [[Agnostic]]
    - Someone that is not sure if a god exists
- Whatever your view is, there will always be a lot of people that don't share your beliefs
- Thinking about [[God]]...
  - Valuable from a historical perspective
  - Helpful for sharpening thoughts about our conclusions
  - Helps us think about the power and limits of [[a priori]] reasoning
  - Lets us think about the nature of existence

[//begin]: # "Autogenerated link references for markdown compatibility"
[e-ubc]: e-ubc "e@UBC"
[phil-1101]: phil-1101 "PHIL 1101 - Intro to Philosophy: Knowledge and Reality"
[God]: god "God"
[Anselm]: anselm "Anselm"
[atheist]: atheist "Atheist"
[Reality]: reality "Reality"
[reality]: reality "Reality"
[Reductio ad absurdum]: reductio-ad-absurdum "Reductio Ad Absurdum"
[reductio ad absurdum]: reductio-ad-absurdum "Reductio Ad Absurdum"
[argument]: argument "Arguments"
[Theist]: theist "Theist"
[Atheist]: atheist "Atheist"
[a priori]: a-priori "A Priori"
[//end]: # "Autogenerated link references"