# 2020-11-25

[[phil-1101]]

- Questions for guiding the reading
  - What is the [[mind-body problem]]?
    - Why is it a *problem*?
  - What is Cartesian Dualism?
    - What are some of the strengths of the theory?
    - What are some of the objections to it?
  - What is [[Philosophical Behaviorism]]?
    - What are some of the strengths of the theory?
    - What are some of the objections to it?
  - What is [[Mind-Brain Identity]] theory?
    - What are some of the strengths of the theory?
    - What are some of the objections to it?
  - What is [[Functionalism]]?
    - What are some of the strengths of the theory?
    - What are some of the objections to it?
- [[Philosophy]] of [[Mind]]
  - Branch of [[philosophy]] that investigates the nature of the [[mind]]
  - Is your [[mind]] just a product of your [[brain]] or are [[mind]]s and [[brain]]s different things?
  - Why does this question matter?
    - Personal survival after [[death]]
    - [[Artificial intelligence]]
      - We believe we can create [[mind]]s that don't require [[brain]]s
- [[Materialism]]
  - When your body dies, everything about you will cease to exist (including your [[mind]])
- [[Dualism]]
- Objection to [[dualism]]
  - How do [[mind]] and [[matter]] causally interact with each other?

[//begin]: # "Autogenerated link references for markdown compatibility"
[phil-1101]: phil-1101 "PHIL 1101 - Intro to Philosophy: Knowledge and Reality"
[mind-body problem]: mind-body-problem "Mind Body Problem"
[Philosophical Behaviorism]: philosophical-behaviorism "Philosophical Behaviorism"
[Mind-Brain Identity]: mind-brain-identity "Mind-Brain Identity"
[Functionalism]: functionalism "Functionalism"
[Philosophy]: philosophy "Philosophy"
[Mind]: mind "Mind"
[philosophy]: philosophy "Philosophy"
[mind]: mind "Mind"
[Artificial intelligence]: artificial-intelligence "Artificial Intelligence"
[Materialism]: materialism "Materialism"
[Dualism]: dualism "Dualism"
[dualism]: dualism "Dualism"
[matter]: matter "Matter"
[//end]: # "Autogenerated link references"