# 2020-11-17

[[phil-1101]]

- Questions to guide the reading
  - What's the difference between qualitative identity and numerical identity?
    - What type of identity is more important for personal identity and why?
  - What is the soul theory?
    - What are the central problems with it according to the textbook authors?
    - Do you think soul theorists could provide a satisfactory response to these objections?
  - What are [[memory]] (psychological continuity) theories?
    - How are they different from the standard version of the soul theory?
    - How does [[John Locke]] use his cobbler and prince thought experiment to argue for it?
  - What is the point of introducing s-memories?
    - What sort of objection is the distinction intended to overcome?
    - Does this distinction succeed in overcoming the objection?
  - What objection to [[memory]] theories is the teletransporter thought experiment supposed to illustrate?
    - How might a defender of a [[memory]] theory respond?
- Lecture
  - Problem of [[personal identity]]
    - What makes a person the same person from one moment to the next?
    - Identify them overtime
      - Hold them responsible for their actions
  - Concept of [[personal identity]]

[//begin]: # "Autogenerated link references for markdown compatibility"
[phil-1101]: phil-1101 "PHIL 1101 - Intro to Philosophy: Knowledge and Reality"
[memory]: memory "Memory"
[John Locke]: john-locke "John Locke"
[memory]: memory "Memory"
[memory]: memory "Memory"
[personal identity]: personal-identity "Personal Identity"
[personal identity]: personal-identity "Personal Identity"
[//end]: # "Autogenerated link references"